# HT's Mod Loader
Use HTML to execute code before the game does.

**This project and its derivatives are only intented to be used for learning purposes. This repository won't contain any anti-anti-cheat.**

**The responsibility arising from the use of this project and its derivatives in multiplayer games shall be borne by the users themselves.**

## Usage
**This project is designed to work exclusively with assembly logic code generated by compiled languages. Execution on interpreted languages or bytecode virtual machine executables may cause unexpected results.**

1. Download latest mod loader in [releases](https://www.github.com/HTMonkeyG/HTML-Sky/releases/latest).
2. Put `winhttp.dll` and `html-config.json` (optional) under the same folder with `Sky.exe`.
3. Create `htmodloader` folder in the folder contains `Sky.exe`. Your directory should look like this:
```
<Game installation directory>
 ├─Sky.exe
 ├─htmodloader
 │ └─mods
 │   ├─<A single mod>
 │   └─<...>
 ├─html-config.json
 ├─winhttp.dll
 └─<...>
```
4. Place each mod in a separated folder within `mods`. Every mod should contain an executable file (dll) and a `manifest.json` at least.
5. Start the game, and view loaded mods in `HTML Main Menu`.

## Build
Use MinGW-w64 15.1.0 to build the project.
1. Clone the repository.
2. Change the working directory to `HTML-Sky`, then execute `mingw32-make.exe all` on the first compilation.
3. If you have some issues on `libraries/leveldb/lib/leveldb.lib`, clone and build `https://github.com/extremeheat/leveldb-mcpe.git`, and replace `leveldb.lib` with your own building. HTModLoader uses C API of leveldb-mcpe only, so we don't care about binary compatibility.

## FAQ
### How to create a mod?
1. Download the latest HTML SDK zip in [releases](https://www.github.com/HTMonkeyG/HTML-Sky/releases/latest).
2. Write your own dll codes with HTML APIs and internal ImGui. You should include the provided ImGui headers by the SDK.
3. Compile and link `htmodloader.lib` with MinGW. HTML is compiled under MinGW, and it may cause problems due to different ABIs if compiling with MSVC. The mod should use c11 and c++17 standard.
4. Write `manifest.json` for the mod. Please remove the comments before put it into the game.
```json
{
  // Internal mod id, must be unique.
  "package_name": "modtest",
  // Mod version.
  "version": "1.0.0",
  // Compatible game edition flags. Check the backends for further information.
  // -1 for all games.
  "game_edition": 3,
  // Display name.
  "mod_name": "Mod Test",
  // Mod description.
  "description": "Test mod of HT's Mod Loader",
  // Executable file of the mod.
  "main": "modtest.dll",
  // Mod dependencies. Unused.
  "dependencies": {},
  // Unused.
  "keywords": [
    "test"
  ],
  // Mod author and license.
  "author": "HTMonkeyG",
  "license": "MIT",
  // Mod website.
  "website": ""
}
```
5. Place your mod DLL and the `manifest.json` file together in a folder within the `htmods` directory. The subfolder can have any name.

### How to create a mod with compilers not compatible with MinGW (like MSVC) ?

1. Download the latest HTML SDK zip in [releases](https://www.github.com/HTMonkeyG/HTML-Sky/releases/latest).
2. Download the `libraries/imgui-*` directory located under the tag that corresponds to the SDK version, and add them into your project.
3. Write your own dll codes with HTML APIs and downloaded ImGui. On the first `HTModRenderGui()` call, use `HTImGuiDispatch()` to get ImGui contexts, then use `ImGui::SetCurrentContext()` and `ImGui::SetAllocatorFunctions()` to set the context. Invoke ImGui functions within `HTModRenderGui()` only.
4. The same as `How to create a mod?`.
